Q-1- What is the definition of Hive? What is the present version of Hive?
A-1-Hive is a data warehousing and SQL-like query language that facilitates querying and managing large datasets residing in distributed
storage systems, such as Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), Amazon S3, or Microsoft Azure Data Lake Storage.Hive translates SQL-like
queries into MapReduce, Apache Spark, or Tez jobs, which are then executed on a cluster of machines in a distributed and parallelized manner.
Hive also provides data summarization, query optimization, partitioning, and indexing capabilities to improve query performance.
The current version of hive 16 November 2022: release 4.0.0-alpha-2 available.

Q-2- Is Hive suitable to be used for OLTP systems? Why?
A-2-Hive is not typically used for Online Transaction Processing (OLTP) systems, as it is primarily designed for querying and analyzing
large volumes of data in a batch-oriented manner.OLTP systems require high transactional throughput and low-latency processing for supporting
real-time, operational workloads such as recording, updating, and retrieving individual transactions. In contrast, Hive is optimized for performing
complex, long-running analytical queries that scan and aggregate large datasets.Furthermore, Hive uses a schema-on-read approach, which means that
the structure of the data is not defined until it is read during query execution. This makes it flexible for ad-hoc analysis but not suitable for
applications that require strict schema enforcement, data consistency, and ACID transactions.Therefore, Hive is better suited for Online Analytical
Processing (OLAP) workloads that involve running complex, data-intensive queries on large datasets, rather than OLTP workloads that require 
high-speed, low-latency transaction processing.

Q-3-How is HIVE different from RDBMS? Does hive support ACID
transactions. If not then give the proper reason.
A-3-Hive and traditional Relational Database Management Systems (RDBMS) differ in several ways:
Data Structure: RDBMS typically use a fixed schema that defines the structure of the data, whereas Hive uses a schema-on-read approach that allows
for flexibility in data structure.
Data Volume: RDBMS are best suited for managing smaller, highly structured data sets, whereas Hive is designed to handle large-scale, unstructured
or semi-structured data.
Data Processing: RDBMS excel at transaction processing and online transaction processing (OLTP), while Hive is optimized for batch processing and
analytics.
Regarding ACID transactions, Hive does not natively support them. ACID (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability) transactions are 
essential for maintaining data consistency and integrity in transactional systems, but they come with a performance cost. As Hive is designed for
batch processing and analytical workloads, it prioritizes query performance over transaction processing.However, Hive does support limited
transactions, such as insert, delete, and update operations, through its transactional tables feature, which uses a combination of locking, 
logging, and snapshot isolation to ensure data consistency. However, this feature is not intended for high-concurrency or high-transaction-rate
workloads, and it may not provide the same level of consistency guarantees as ACID transactions in RDBMS.In summary, while Hive and RDBMS share
some similarities, they are designed for different use cases, and their capabilities and limitations reflect their intended purposes. Hive is 
optimized for processing and analyzing large-scale, unstructured or semi-structured data, whereas RDBMS are designed for managing smaller, highly
structured data sets and supporting transaction processing.

Q-4-Explain the hive architecture and the different components of a Hive architecture?
A-4-Hive is an open-source data warehousing and SQL querying platform that is built on top of Apache Hadoop. It is designed to provide a simple
and efficient way to process and analyze large datasets using SQL-like queries. Hive architecture consists of three main components:
*HiveQL:HiveQL is a SQL-like language that is used to write queries against data stored in the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) or other 
supported storage systems such as Apache HBase or Amazon S3. It is a declarative language, which means that users specify what they want to 
retrieve or manipulate without specifying how to do it.
*Metastore:Metastore is a repository that stores metadata about the Hive tables, such as their schema and location in HDFS. It provides a unified
view of the metadata across all Hive instances, which enables sharing of metadata between different Hive instances and tools.
*Execution Engine:The execution engine is responsible for compiling and executing the queries written in HiveQL. It consists of two main components
1.Compiler: The compiler parses the HiveQL queries and converts them into a logical execution plan, which is a set of MapReduce or Tez jobs.
2.Execution Runtime: The execution runtime executes the MapReduce or Tez jobs generated by the compiler.
In addition to these main components, there are other important components in the Hive architecture, including:
*Driver:The driver is responsible for coordinating the interaction between the user, HiveQL, the Metastore, and the Execution Engine. It accepts
the queries submitted by the user, communicates with the Metastore to retrieve metadata, and interacts with the Execution Engine to execute the
queries.
*SerDe:The SerDe (Serializer/Deserializer) is responsible for serializing the data in the Hive tables into a format that can be stored in HDFS,
and deserializing it back into its original form when the data is retrieved. There are several built-in SerDe classes, as well as the ability to
write custom SerDe classes.
*Storage Handler:The Storage Handler is responsible for managing the interaction between Hive and the underlying storage system. There are several
built-in Storage Handlers for HDFS, HBase, and other systems, as well as the ability to write custom Storage Handlers.


Q-5-Mention what Hive query processor does? And Mention what are the components of a Hive query processor?
A-5-The Hive query processor is responsible for interpreting the HiveQL queries, generating the execution plan, and executing the plan against the
data stored in the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) or other supported storage systems.
The components of a Hive query processor are:
*Parser:The parser is responsible for parsing the HiveQL query and producing an abstract syntax tree (AST) that represents the logical structure 
of the query.
*Semantic Analyzer:The Semantic Analyzer checks the AST produced by the parser and performs semantic analysis to ensure that the query is well-
formed and the references to tables and columns are valid.
*Query Optimizer:The query optimizer analyzes the query and produces an optimized execution plan that reduces the amount of data that needs to be
processed and minimizes the time required to execute the query.
*Execution Engine:The Execution Engine is responsible for executing the optimized execution plan generated by the Query Optimizer. The Execution 
Engine can use various processing frameworks such as MapReduce, Tez, or Spark to process and analyze the data stored in HDFS or other supported 
storage systems.
*User Interface:The User Interface is the interface between the user and the Hive query processor. It allows users to submit queries, monitor query
progress, and retrieve query results.
*Metastore:The Metastore stores metadata about the tables, columns, and partitions that are used in the queries. It is used by the Semantic 
Analyzer and the Execution Engine to validate and execute queries.

Q-6-What are the three different modes in which we can operate Hive?
A-6-*Local Mode:In Local Mode, Hive runs in a single JVM and all the processing happens in the local file system. This mode is useful for small 
data sets and for development and testing purposes.
*MapReduce Mode:In MapReduce Mode, Hive uses Hadoop MapReduce as the processing engine. The data is stored in HDFS and the processing happens in a
distributed manner across the nodes in the Hadoop cluster. This mode is useful for processing large datasets.
*Spark Mode:In Spark Mode, Hive uses Apache Spark as the processing engine. The data is stored in HDFS or other supported storage systems and the 
processing happens in a distributed manner using the Spark engine. This mode is useful for processing large datasets and provides faster processing
speed compared to MapReduce mode.

Q-7-Features and Limitations of Hive.
A-7-
Features of Hive:
*SQL-like Interface: Hive provides a SQL-like interface, called HiveQL, for querying and analyzing data stored in HDFS or other supported storage 
systems. This makes it easy for users who are familiar with SQL to use Hive and perform complex analytics on large datasets.
*Scalability: Hive is highly scalable and can handle large datasets that are distributed across multiple nodes in a Hadoop cluster. It can also be
used in combination with other Hadoop ecosystem tools, such as Pig, HBase, and Sqoop, to build powerful and flexible big data solutions.
*Data Serialization and Deserialization: Hive supports various data serialization and deserialization formats, including Apache Avro, JSON, and 
Parquet, which makes it easy to work with data stored in different formats.
*Extensible: Hive is highly extensible and can be customized to meet the specific needs of different organizations. Users can create their own User
-Defined Functions (UDFs), SerDe plugins, and storage handlers to integrate with their existing data processing workflows.
*Data Warehousing: Hive is a powerful tool for building data warehouses and analytical systems. It provides support for partitioning, bucketing,
and indexing, which makes it easy to optimize queries and improve query performance.

Limitations of Hive:
*Query Latency: Hive is designed for batch processing and is not optimized for low-latency queries. This means that it may not be suitable for 
applications that require real-time query responses.
*Limited Support for Transactions: Hive does not provide full support for transactions and does not support rollbacks or ACID (Atomicity, 
Consistency, Isolation, Durability) transactions. This can be a limitation for applications that require transactional support.
*Limited Real-time Data Processing: Hive is not designed for real-time data processing and does not provide support for streaming data. 
Applications that require real-time data processing may need to use other tools, such as Apache Kafka or Apache Flink.
*Steep Learning Curve: Hive can have a steep learning curve for users who are not familiar with Hadoop and the Hadoop ecosystem. It requires 
knowledge of Hadoop configuration and administration, as well as an understanding of the underlying distributed systems and data processing 
frameworks.
*No Indexing on Nested Data: Hive does not support indexing on nested data structures, which can make queries on complex data types, such as JSON
and XML, slow and inefficient.

Q-8-How to create a Database in HIVE?
A-8-create database hive_db;

Q-9-How to create a table in HIVE?
A-9-
create table department_data
(
dept_id int,
dept_name string,
manager_id int,
salary int)
row format delimited
fields terminated by ',';

Q-10-What do you mean by describe and describe extended and describe formatted with respect to database and table
A-10-
*DESCRIBE:DESCRIBE command is used to view the list of columns in a table or view.it basically return list of columns along with their data types
and any comments associated with them.
*DESCRIBE EXTENDED: This command is used to view the extended schema of a database or table. It includes additional information such as column
statistics, location, and file format. 
*DESCRIBE FORMATTED: This command is used to view the detailed schema of a database or table, including information such as column statistics,
partition information, and storage properties.

Q-11-How to skip header rows from a table in Hive?
A-11-set hive.cli.print.header = true;

Q-12-What is a hive operator? What are the different types of hive operators?
A-12-Hive operators are special symbols or words that perform operations on one or more values. Hive supports a wide range of operators, including
arithmetic, comparison, logical, and bitwise operators.
common operators in hive:
*Arithmetic operators: Hive supports all standard arithmetic operators such as +, -, *, /, and %.
*Comparison operators: Hive supports all standard comparison operators such as =, !=, <, >, <=, and >=.
*Logical operators: Hive supports three logical operators: AND, OR, and NOT.
*Bitwise operators: Hive supports three bitwise operators: & (AND), | (OR), and ^ (XOR).
*Relational operators: Hive supports relational operators such as SELECT, FROM, WHERE, GROUP BY, and ORDER BY.
*Join operators: Hive supports join operators such as INNER JOIN, LEFT OUTER JOIN, RIGHT OUTER JOIN, and FULL OUTER JOIN.
*Set operators: Hive supports set operators such as UNION, UNION ALL, INTERSECT, and EXCEPT.
*Conditional operators: Hive supports conditional operators such as CASE, WHEN, and THEN.
*Miscellaneous operators: Hive supports miscellaneous operators such as LIMIT, DISTINCT, and SORT BY.

Q-13-Explain about the Hive Built-In Functions
A-13-some categories of Hive built-in functions:
*Mathematical functions: Hive provides a variety of mathematical functions, including ABS, CEIL, FLOOR, ROUND, EXP, LOG, POWER, and SQRT. These 
functions can be used to perform various mathematical calculations on numeric data.
*String functions: Hive provides a variety of string functions, including CONCAT, SUBSTR, LENGTH, LOWER, UPPER, TRIM, and REPLACE. These functions
can be used to manipulate and extract information from string data.
*Date and time functions: Hive provides a variety of date and time functions, including CURRENT_DATE, CURRENT_TIMESTAMP, YEAR, MONTH, DAY, HOUR, 
MINUTE, SECOND, DATEDIFF, and TIMESTAMPDIFF. These functions can be used to manipulate and extract information from date and time data.
*Conditional functions: Hive provides a variety of conditional functions, including CASE, IF, and COALESCE. These functions can be used to perform
conditional logic in Hive queries.
*Aggregate functions: Hive provides a variety of aggregate functions, including AVG, SUM, MIN, MAX, COUNT, and GROUP_CONCAT. These functions can be
used to calculate summary statistics on data in Hive.
Array functions: Hive provides a variety of array functions, including ARRAY, SIZE, SORT_ARRAY, CONCAT_WS, and EXPLODE. These functions can be used
to manipulate and extract information from array data.

Q-14-Write hive DDL and DML commands.
A-14-Data Definition Language (DDL) commands:create database hive_db; drop database hive_db; create table department_data(dept_id int,dept_name 
string,manager_id int,salary int)row format delimited fields terminated by ','; 
Data Manipulation Language (DML) commands:select * from department_data; 

Q-15-Explain about SORT BY, ORDER BY, DISTRIBUTE BY and CLUSTER BY in Hive.
A-15-*SORT BY: The SORT BY clause is used to sort data within a reducer.It does not guarantee the order of output records across multiple reducers
Syntax: SELECT * FROM table_name SORT BY column_name;
*ORDER BY: The ORDER BY clause is used to sort data across all reducers.It guarantees the order of output records across multiple reducers.
Syntax: SELECT * FROM table_name ORDER BY column_name;
*DISTRIBUTE BY: The DISTRIBUTE BY clause is used to determine the partitioning of the data in a table. It ensures that the data is divided among
reducers based on the specified column(s).
Syntax: SELECT * FROM table_name DISTRIBUTE BY column_name;
*CLUSTER BY: The CLUSTER BY clause is used to sort data within a reducer and to determine the bucketing of the data in a table. It ensures
that the data is divided among reducers based on the specified column(s) and sorted within each reducer.
Syntax: SELECT * FROM table_name CLUSTER BY column_name;

Q-16-Difference between "Internal Table" and "External Table" and Mention when to choose “Internal Table” and “External Table” in Hive?
A-16-Internal Tables: Internal tables are stored in a directory managed by Hive. When you drop an internal table, both the metadata and the data 
are deleted. The data is managed by Hive and is stored in a location that is managed by Hive.
External Tables: External tables are similar to internal tables, except that the data is stored outside of Hive. When you drop an external table, 
only the metadata is deleted, and the data remains intact. The data is managed by the user and is stored in a location that is not managed by Hive.

*internal tables are useful for managing data within the Hive ecosystem. They are easier to manage, as the data and metadata are managed by Hive, 
and they are more performant, as they are optimized for use within Hive while External tables are suitable when the data needs to be shared between
multiple systems,or when the data needs to be accessed outside of Hive. This means that external tables are useful for managing data that needs to
be accessed by multiple applications.

Q-17-Where does the data of a Hive table get stored?
A-17-The data of internal table stored into warehouse directory of HDFS managed by hive and the data of external table is already present in HDFS
file location not managed by hive and we make table top on it and we can specify location for both tables at the time of creation.

Q-18-Is it possible to change the default location of a managed table?
A-18-Yes, it is possible to change the default location of a managed table in Hive.The default location for managed tables in Hive is in the 
directoryspecified by the hive.metastore.warehouse.dir configuration property.
CREATE TABLE my_table (id INT,name STRING)
ROW FORMAT DELIMITED
FIELDS TERMINATED BY ','
STORED AS TEXTFILE
LOCATION '/my/custom/path/my_table';

Q-19-What is a metastore in Hive? What is the default database provided by Apache Hive for metastore?
A-19-the metastore is a central repository that stores metadata about Hive tables, including their schema, data types, partitioning information,
and location of the data. The metastore is used by Hive to manage tables and to perform operations such as creating, dropping, and altering tables.
The default database provided by Apache Hive for the metastore is Derby. Derby is an embedded Java database that is included with Hive, and it is
suitable for small deployments or testing environments.

Q-20-Why does Hive not store metadata information in HDFS?
A-20-Hive does not store metadata information in HDFS because HDFS is designed for storing large data files and is optimized for sequential 
read/write operations. Storing metadata in HDFS would require accessing and updating small files frequently, which can be inefficient and slow down
Hive operations.Instead, Hive stores metadata information in a separate component called the metastore. The metastore stores metadata in a database
that can be accessed by all nodes in the Hive cluster. This allows Hive to efficiently manage metadata and perform operations such as creating,
dropping, and altering tables without affecting the performance of HDFS.

Q-21-What is a partition in Hive? And Why do we perform partitioning in Hive?
A-21-partitioning is a way to divide a large table into smaller, more manageable parts based on the values of one or more columns. Each partition
is stored as a separate directory on the filesystem, and contains a subset of the data in the table.
Partitioning can be performed on one or more columns, and the columns used for partitioning are called partition keys.partitioning in Hive is a 
powerful technique for managing large datasets, improving query performance, and making data more manageable and available.

Q-22-What is the difference between dynamic partitioning and static partitioning?
A-22-In static partitioning, the partitions are created and managed explicitly by the user. When creating a table with static partitioning, you 
must specify the partition keys and the values for each partition.Static partitioning is useful when you know the partitioning scheme in advance 
and the data is relatively static.
in dynamic partitioning, partitions are created automatically based on the values of the partition keys in the data. When you insert data into a 
table with dynamic partitioning, Hive determines the partition key values from the data and creates the appropriate partition directories 
automatically. Dynamic partitioning is useful when the partitioning scheme is not known in advance or the data is highly dynamic.

Q-23-How do you check if a particular partition exists?
A-23-DESCRIBE sales PARTITION (year=2022, month=1);
If the partition exists, Hive will display the schema and location information for that partition. If the partition does not exist, Hive will 
return an empty result set.

Q-24-How can you stop a partition form being queried?
A-24-ALTER TABLE your_table_name ARCHIVE PARTITION (partition_column='partition_value');
SHOW PARTITIONS your_table_name;

Q-25-Why do we need buckets? How Hive distributes the rows into buckets?
A-25-Buckets in Hive are a way to horizontally partition data within a table based on a specified columns.They are used for efficient data storage
and retrieval, especially when working with large datasets.
Benefits of Buckets:
1.Improved Query Performance: Buckets allow for faster querying by organizing data into smaller, more manageable units. When a query is executed
on a bucketed table, Hive can directly access and process only the relevant buckets, reducing the amount of data that needs to be scanned.
2.Data Skew Handling: In cases where data is not evenly distributed across a partitioned column, buckets can help mitigate data skew. By dividing
data into buckets, you can distribute the load evenly across the buckets, preventing hotspots and improving query performance.
3.Join Optimization: When performing joins between two or more tables, bucketing can be beneficial. If the join columns are bucketed, Hive can
leverage the bucketing information to optimize the join operation and avoid shuffling unnecessary data.

Distribution of Rows into Buckets:Hive distributes rows into buckets using a hash-based algorithm. Here's how it works:
1.Determine the Bucketing Column: First, you need to specify the column on which you want to create buckets when creating a table in Hive.
2.Hash Function: Hive applies a hash function to the values of the bucketing column(s) for each row. The hash function generates a hash 
value, which is an integer.
3.Bucket Assignment: The hash value is then used to determine the target bucket for the row. Hive assigns the row to the bucket based on the 
remainder of the hash value divided by the total number of buckets specified.
4.Data Distribution: Hive distributes the rows evenly across the available buckets based on the hash values. This distribution ensures that
rows with similar hash values are likely to end up in the same bucket.

Q-26-In Hive, how can you enable buckets?
A-26-
create table users(id int,name string,salary int,unit string)row format delimited fields terminated by ',';
load data local inpath 'file:///config/workspace/users.csv' into table users;
create table buck_users(id int,name string,salary int,unit string)clustered by (id) sorted by (id) into 2 buckets;
insert overwrite table buck_users select * from users;

Q-27-How does bucketing help in the faster execution of queries?
A-27-Bucketing helps in the faster execution of queries in Hive due to the following reasons:
1.Data Pruning: When a query is executed on a bucketed table, Hive can leverage the bucketing information to optimize the query execution. Hive
knows the exact location of data within each bucket based on the hash values of the bucketing column. This enables a technique called data pruning,
where Hive can eliminate reading unnecessary buckets that do not contain relevant data for the query. By directly accessing only the required 
buckets, Hive reduces the amount of data that needs to be scanned, leading to improved query performance.
2.Reduced Data Skew: In real-world scenarios, data may not be evenly distributed across a partitioned column. This can result in data skew, where
certain buckets contain significantly more data than others. Bucketing helps mitigate data skew by distributing data evenly across the buckets. By
dividing the data into smaller, more balanced units, Hive ensures that the processing load is distributed more evenly across the nodes in the
cluster. This reduces the chances of data hotspots and avoids performance bottlenecks that can occur due to skewed data distribution.
3.Join Optimization: Bucketing is particularly beneficial when performing join operations on large tables. If the join columns are bucketed in both
tables, Hive can exploit the bucketing information to optimize the join operation. Hive can perform a bucket-to-bucket join, where it matches the
data from each bucket in one table directly with the corresponding bucket in the other table. This avoids the need for shuffling and redistributing
the entire dataset during the join, resulting in significant performance gains.

Q-28-How to optimise Hive Performance? Explain in very detail.
A-28-Optimizing performance in Hive involves several strategies and techniques that can be applied at different levels, including data organization
,query optimization, data processing, and resource management.
1.Data Organization and Storage:
*Partitioning: Partitioning data based on commonly queried columns helps to eliminate unnecessary data scans. Choose partitioning columns wisely
based on the query patterns and ensure an even distribution of data across partitions.
*Bucketing: Bucketing divides data into smaller, more manageable units, enabling efficient data pruning and reducing data skew. Determine the 
appropriate bucketing columns and the number of buckets based on data characteristics and query requirements.
*File Formats: Selecting appropriate file formats, such as ORC or Parquet, can improve performance by enabling columnar storage, compression,
predicate pushdown, and other optimizations. These formats reduce I/O and improve query speed.
*Compression: Compressing data files reduces storage requirements and improves I/O performance. Choose a compression algorithm that balances
compression ratios and query performance.
2.Query Optimization:
*Predicate Pushdown: Pushing predicates (filter conditions) closer to the data improves query performance by reducing the amount of data 
processed. Hive supports predicate pushdown for certain file formats like ORC and Parquet.
*Cost-Based Optimizer: Hive's Cost-Based Optimizer (CBO) estimates the cost of query plans and chooses the most efficient execution plan.
Enable CBO by setting the hive.cbo.enable configuration property to true.
*Join Optimization: Optimize join queries by choosing appropriate join strategies, such as bucketed joins or map joins. Use hints like
MAPJOIN or BROADCASTJOIN to guide the optimizer in selecting efficient join algorithms.
*Indexes: Hive supports indexing on certain column types (e.g., string, timestamp). Creating indexes can improve query performance by 
reducing the amount of data scanned for specific conditions.
3.Data Processing and Execution:
*Vectorization: Enable vectorized query execution (hive.vectorized.execution.enabled=true) to leverage hardware instructions and process 
data in batches, resulting in faster query execution.
*Parallelism: Configure the number of reducer tasks (hive.exec.reducers) based on the available resources to enable parallel processing 
and achieve better query performance.
*Dynamic Partition Pruning: Hive's dynamic partition pruning feature helps eliminate unnecessary partitions during query execution,
reducing the data scanned and improving query performance. Ensure that the necessary configuration (hive.optimize.ppd) is enabled.
*Tez or LLAP Execution Engine: Consider using Tez or LLAP (Live Long and Process) execution engines for improved performance. These 
engines provide more efficient data processing and better resource management capabilities.
4.Resource Management:
*Memory Allocation: Configure memory-related parameters (hive.tez.container.size, hive.tez.java.opts, etc.) to optimize memory allocation for Hive
queries. Allocate sufficient memory to avoid out-of-memory errors and enable efficient data processing.
*Dynamic Resource Allocation: Enable dynamic resource allocation (hive.server2.tez.dynamic.allocator.enabled=true) to automatically allocate 
resources based on query requirements, optimizing resource utilization.
*Workload Management: Use Hive's workload management features, such as resource queues and priorities, to prioritize and allocate resources to
different query workloads based on their importance and SLAs.
5.Data Skew Handling:
*Skewed Join Optimization: Hive provides techniques like skewed join optimization to handle data skew in join operations. Configure the 
hive.optimize.skewjoin property to enable this optimization.
*Sampling: Sampling data before running queries can help identify and handle skewed data distribution. Use Hive's sampling feature (TABLESAMPLE) 
to generate representative samples for analyzing data skew and adjusting query plans accordingly.

Q-29-What is the use of Hcatalog?
A-29-HCatalog is a table and storage management layer in the Apache Hadoop ecosystem. It provides a unified interface for users and applications
to interact with data stored in various formats and storage systems within the Hadoop ecosystem. Here are the key uses and benefits of HCatalog:
*Metadata Management: HCatalog provides a centralized metadata repository that stores the schema and structural information of data stored in 
Hadoop. It allows users to define, manage, and query metadata for their data assets, making it easier to discover and understand the structure of
the stored data.
*Data Discovery and Accessibility: HCatalog enables users and applications to easily discover and access data stored in Hadoop. It provides a 
consistent view of the data, regardless of the underlying storage format or system, such as Apache Hive, Apache Pig, or Apache HBase. Users can 
use HCatalog to explore the available data assets and access them using familiar SQL-like or scripting languages.
*Schema Evolution: HCatalog simplifies the process of schema evolution for data stored in Hadoop. As data evolves and schema changes over time, 
HCatalog helps manage the changes by keeping track of different versions of the schema. It provides compatibility and backward compatibility 
features that allow applications to work with different versions of data schemas seamlessly.

Q-30- Explain about the different types of join in Hive.
A-30-Here are the different types of join in Hive:
*Inner Join: Inner join is the most common type of join operation in Hive. It returns only the rows where the join condition is satisfied in both 
tables. It is used to combine data from two or more tables based on a common column.
syntax:
SELECT *
FROM table1
INNER JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;
*Left Outer Join: Left outer join returns all the rows from the left table and matching rows from the right table. If there is no match in right
table, it returns NULL values for the columns from the right table.
synatx:
SELECT *
FROM table1
LEFT OUTER JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;
*Right Outer Join: Right outer join is similar to the left outer join, but it returns all the rows from the right table and matching rows from the
left table. If there is no match in the left table, it returns NULL values for the columns from the left table. 
syntax:
SELECT *
FROM table1
RIGHT OUTER JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;
*Full Outer Join: Full outer join returns all the rows from both tables. If there is no match in one of the tables, it returns NULL values for the
columns from that table. 
syntax:
SELECT *
FROM table1
FULL OUTER JOIN table2
ON table1.column = table2.column;
*Cross Join: Cross join returns all the possible combinations of rows from both tables. It does not require a join condition. 
synatx:
SELECT *
FROM table1
CROSS JOIN table2;
*Self Join: Self join is used to join a table to itself. It is used to compare rows within the same table.
syntax:
SELECT *
FROM table1 t1
INNER JOIN table1 t2
ON t1.column = t2.column;

Q-31-Is it possible to create a Cartesian join between 2 tables, using Hive?
A-31-Yes, it is possible to create a Cartesian join between two tables in Hive. A Cartesian join, also known as a cross join, returns the 
Cartesian product of rows from both tables, resulting in every possible combination of rows. However, it's important to note that Cartesian joins
can result in a large number of output rows and can be resource-intensive, so they should be used with caution.
syntax:
SELECT *
FROM table1
CROSS JOIN table2;


Q-32-Explain the SMB Join in Hive?
A-32-SMB (Sort-Merge-Bucket) join is a specific type of join optimization technique available in Hive. It combines the benefits of bucketing and
sorting to improve the performance of join operations. SMB join is designed to optimize the join process for large tables with bucketed and sorted
data.
To utilize SMB join in Hive, the following conditions should be met:
*The tables being joined should have the same number of buckets.
*The data within each bucket should be sorted based on the join column(s).
*Number of buckets in both the column are multiples of each other. 

Q-33-What is the difference between order by and sort by which one we should use?
A-33-
*ORDER BY is used to sort the entire result set of a query based on the specified columns.The ORDER BY clause sorts the entire result set in a 
single reducer, which means it requires a single reduce phase. It can handle a large amount of data but may incur performance issues if the 
dataset is extremely large.
*SORT BY is used to sort the data within each reducer before producing the final result. The SORT BY clause sorts the data within each 
reducer independently. It doesn't guarantee a globally sorted result across all reducers. Instead, it sorts the data locally within each reducer.

Q-34-What is the usefulness of the DISTRIBUTED BY clause in Hive?
A-34-
*Data Distribution: The DISTRIBUTED BY clause helps in evenly distributing the data across the nodes in a Hive cluster. By specifying one or more 
columns in the DISTRIBUTED BY clause, Hive uses a hash function to determine which node should store each record based on the hash value of the 
specified columns. This ensures that data with the same hash value is stored on the same node, leading to more balanced data distribution.
*Load Balancing: Even distribution of data through the DISTRIBUTED BY clause helps achieve load balancing in a Hive cluster. When data is evenly 
distributed, the query workload is spread across the cluster, avoiding hotspots and ensuring that each node shares an equal amount of processing.
*Join and Aggregation Performance: Proper data distribution facilitated by the DISTRIBUTED BY clause can significantly improve the performance of
join and aggregation operations in Hive. When data is distributed based on the join or aggregation keys, related records end up on the same node,
reducing the data movement required during processing and minimizing network communication. This results in faster join and aggregation operations.

Q-35-How does data transfer happen from HDFS to Hive?
A-35-When data is transferred from HDFS (Hadoop Distributed File System) to Hive, several steps are involved in the process.
*Data Ingestion: The first step is to ingest the data into HDFS. This can be done using various methods, such as Hadoop commands (hdfs dfs -put or
hadoop fs -put), Hadoop streaming, Hadoop File API, or other data ingestion tools and frameworks.
*Data Organization: Once the data is in HDFS, it needs to be organized into appropriate directories and file formats that Hive can understand and 
process. Hive supports various file formats, such as text files, Parquet, ORC, Avro, etc. The data can be partitioned and bucketed in Hive for 
improved performance.
*Hive Metadata Creation: Before data can be queried in Hive, metadata needs to be created to define the structure and schema of the data. This is 
done using Hive Data Definition Language (DDL) statements, such as CREATE TABLE, which specifies the table name, columns, data types, partitioning
scheme, and other properties.
*External Table or Managed Table: In Hive, you have the option to create an external table or a managed table.
*Data Loading: After creating the table and defining the metadata, you can load the data from HDFS into the Hive table. Hive provides several 
option for loading data, such as LOAD DATA INPATH, INSERT INTO, INSERT OVERWRITE, or using ETL tools and frameworks.
*Data Serialization and Deserialization: During data transfer from HDFS to Hive, the data is serialized and deserialized.
*Querying the Data: Once the data is loaded into Hive, you can query it using HiveQL, which is a SQL-like query language for Hive. Hive translates
the HiveQL queries into MapReduce, Tez, or other execution frameworks to process the data stored in HDFS.

Q-36-Wherever (Different Directory) I run the hive query, it creates a new metastore_db, please explain the reason for it?
A-36-The creation of a new metastore_db directory in different directories when running Hive queries is likely due to the initialization and 
configuration of the Hive Metastore.When you run Hive queries in different directories or environments, Hive needs to establish a connection to 
the underlying metastore database to retrieve and manage the metadata. To ensure the integrity and isolation of metadata, Hive creates a separate
metastore_db directory for each instance or environment.

Q-37-What will happen in case you have not issued the command: ‘SET hive.enforce.bucketing=true;’ before bucketing a table in Hive?
A-37-If you have not issued the command SET hive.enforce.bucketing=true; before bucketing a table in Hive, the bucketing process will still be 
executed, but the enforcement of bucketing rules will not be enabled.This setting ensures that Hive enforces the bucketing rules during data 
insertion, updates, and queries, allowing for improved query performance by leveraging bucket pruning and other bucket-aware optimizations.

Q-38-Can a table be renamed in Hive?
A-38-Yes, a table can be renamed in Hive using the ALTER TABLE statement.
ALTER TABLE current_table_name RENAME TO new_table_name;

Q-39-Write a query to insert a new column(new_col INT) into a hive table at a position before an existing column (x_col)
A-39-ALTER TABLE your_table_name CHANGE new_col new_col INT FIRST;

Q-40-What is serde operation in HIVE?
A-40-In Hive, the term "SerDe" stands for "Serialization/Deserialization." It refers to the process of converting data between a structured format
(such as a row in a table) and a serialized or deserialized format that can be stored or transmitted.
A SerDe typically consists of two main components:
*Deserializer: The deserializer reads the serialized data, interprets the structure and format, and converts it into a tabular form that Hive can 
understand. It applies the necessary parsing and deserialization operations to transform the serialized data into structured rows and columns.
*Serializer: The serializer performs the opposite operation. It takes structured data, such as rows and columns, and converts it into a serialized
format suitable for storage or transmission. The serializer applies the necessary formatting and serialization operations to transform the data 
into a serialized representation.

Q-41-Explain how Hive Deserializes and serialises the data?
A-41-Deserialization in Hive:
*Input Data: When you query data stored in a file format (such as CSV, JSON, Avro, Parquet, ORC) using Hive, the first step is to read the data 
from the file system into Hive.
*Input Format: Hive uses an InputFormat specific to the file format being read. The InputFormat defines how the file is read and divided into input
splits for processing.
*Record Reader: The InputFormat creates a RecordReader, which reads and parses the data from the input splits. The RecordReader handles the logic
for reading the data in a specific file format.
*Deserializer: Once the RecordReader reads the data, it passes the serialized data to the appropriate SerDe. The SerDe deserializes the serialized
data into structured rows and columns. The SerDe understands the format and structure of the data and applies the necessary parsing and 
deserialization operations to transform it into a tabular format that Hive can process.
*Internal Representation: After deserialization, the data is represented internally in Hive's columnar storage format, where each column is stored
separately. This columnar representation allows for efficient querying and processing of the data.
Serialization in Hive:
*Output Data: When you insert or write data into a table in Hive, the structured data is passed to Hive for serialization and storage.
*Serializer: Hive uses the appropriate SerDe for the file format of the target table. The SerDe applies the necessary serialization operations to
convert the structured data (rows and columns) into a serialized format.
*Columnar Representation: Before serialization, the structured data in Hive is stored in a columnar format. The Serializer accesses each column 
separately and applies the necessary formatting and serialization operations to transform the data into a serialized representation.
*Output Format: Hive uses an OutputFormat specific to the file format of the target table. The OutputFormat handles the logic for writing the 
serialized data to the file system in the desired file format.
*Output Data Storage: The serialized data is written to the file system using the OutputFormat. The file format and file structure are based on the
chosen file format and any table properties or configurations specified.

Q-42-Write the name of the built-in serde in hive.
A-42-
*LazySimpleSerDe: This SerDe is used for processing data in delimited text formats, such as CSV (Comma-Separated Values). It supports customizable
delimiters and handles simple deserialization and serialization of data.
*JsonSerDe: This SerDe is used for processing data in JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) format. It can deserialize JSON data into Hive rows and 
serialize Hive rows into JSON format.
*AvroSerDe: This SerDe is used for working with data in Avro format. It supports both reading and writing Avro data in Hive, providing integration
between Avro and Hive.
*OrcSerDe: This SerDe is used for working with data in the ORC (Optimized Row Columnar) file format. It enables reading and writing ORC files in
Hive, offering efficient data storage and query performance.
*ParquetHiveSerDe: This SerDe is used for processing data in the Parquet file format. It allows reading and writing Parquet files in Hive, 
providing optimized columnar storage and predicate pushdown capabilities.

Q-43-What is the need of custom Serde?
A-43-Custom SerDes (Serialization/Deserialization) are useful in Hive when you have data in a format that is not natively supported by the 
built-in SerDe libraries. There are several reasons why you might need to create a custom SerDe:
*Non-standard File Formats: If your data is stored in a file format that is not supported by the built-in SerDes, you can create a custom SerDe to
handle that specific format. This allows you to work with your data directly in Hive without the need for external transformations.
*Custom Data Structures: If your data has a complex or non-standard structure, a custom SerDe can be used to parse and serialize the data correctly
You can define the logic for extracting specific fields or handling nested structures based on your data requirements.
*Performance Optimization: By creating a custom SerDe, you can optimize the deserialization and serialization process for your specific data 
format. You can tailor the SerDe implementation to efficiently handle your data's characteristics, leading to improved performance and query 
execution times.
*Data Transformation: A custom SerDe allows you to perform data transformations during the deserialization or serialization process. You can 
manipulate the data as it is being processed, such as converting data types, normalizing values, or applying custom business logic.
*Integration with External Systems: If you need to integrate Hive with an external system or proprietary data format, a custom SerDe can bridge 
the gap between the two. It enables you to read and write data between Hive and the external system by defining the serialization and 
deserialization operations specific to that system.

Q-44-Can you write the name of a complex data type(collection data types) in Hive?
A-44-
*Array: An array is an ordered collection of elements of the same data type. It is represented as array<datatype>. 
*Map: A map is an unordered collection of key-value pairs, where each key is associated with a value. ex-map<string, int> represents a map where
keys are strings and values are integers.
*Struct: A struct is a collection of fields with different data types.ex- struct<int, string> represents a struct with an integer field followed
by a string field.
*Union: A union represents a set of possible data types for a column.ex-uniontype<int, string> represents a column that can hold either integers
or strings.

Q-45-Can hive queries be executed from script files? How?
A-45-Yes, Hive queries can be executed from script files. You can write your Hive queries in a script file and then execute the file using the 
Hive CLI (Command Line Interface) or Hive Beeline.


Q-46-What are the default record and field delimiter used for hive text files?
A-46-In Hive, the default record delimiter and field delimiter used for text files are as follows:
1.Record Delimiter: The default record delimiter in Hive is the newline character (\n). Each new line represents separate record in the text file.
2.Field Delimiter: The default field delimiter in Hive is the tab character (\t). It is used to separate individual fields within a record in the
text file.
However, it's important to note that these default delimiters can be changed by specifying different delimiters during table creation or while 
loading data into the table. Hive provides flexibility in defining custom delimiters based on the requirements of the data being processed.

Q-47-How do you list all databases in Hive whose name starts with s?
A-47-SHOW DATABASES LIKE 's*';

Q-48-What is the difference between LIKE and RLIKE operators in Hive?
A-48-*LIKE Operator:The LIKE operator performs simple pattern matching using wildcard characters.It supports two wildcard characters:
% - Matches any sequence of characters (including zero characters),_ - Matches any single character.
The LIKE operator is case-sensitive by default, but it can be made case-insensitive by using the RLIKE operator with a regular expression and the
appropriate flags.
EX-SELECT * FROM table_name WHERE column_name LIKE 'abc%';
*RLIKE Operator:The RLIKE operator performs pattern matching using regular expressions (regex).
It allows for more complex pattern matching and supports the use of regular expression syntax.
The regular expression used with RLIKE can include a wide range of pattern matching constructs, such as character classes, quantifiers, anchors, 
and more.
The RLIKE operator is case-sensitive by default, but you can make it case-insensitive by using appropriate flags in the regular expression.
EX-SELECT * FROM table_name WHERE column_name RLIKE '^abc.*';

Q-49-How to change the column data type in Hive?
A-49-ALTER TABLE my_table CHANGE my_column my_column INT;

Q-50-How will you convert the string ’51.2’ to a float value in the particular column?
A-50-ALTER TABLE your_table_name CHANGE your_column_name your_column_name FLOAT;

Q-51-What will be the result when you cast ‘abc’ (string) as INT?
A-51-When casting a string to an INT in Hive, the string must represent a valid integer value for the conversion to succeed. If the string 
contains non-numeric characters or is not in a valid numeric format, the casting operation will fail and raise an error.

Q-52-What does the following query do?
a. INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE employees
b. PARTITION (country, state)
c. SELECT ..., se.cnty, se.st
d. FROM staged_employees se;
A-52-a.)INSERT OVERWRITE TABLE employees-it will erase the data of existing table and then insert the new data in the table.
b.)PARTITION (country, state)-first it will create partition across countries then each partition of country it will create partition across states
c.)SELECT ..., se.cnty, se.st-it will select the column se.cnty,se.st.
d.)FROM staged_employees se;-it specifies the table or subquery staged_employees and assigns it an alias se.

Q-53-Write a query where you can overwrite data in a new table from the existing table.
A-53-insert overwrite table buck_users select * from users;

Q-54-What is the maximum size of a string data type supported by Hive? Explain how Hive supports binary formats.
A-54-In Hive, the maximum size of a string data type is limited by the maximum value that can be represented by the underlying file system used by
Hive. By default, Hive uses the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS), which has a maximum file size of several terabytes. Therefore, the maximum
size of a string data type in Hive can be several terabytes.
Hive supports binary formats by allowing users to define columns with binary data types, such as BINARY, VARBINARY, and BLOB. These binary data 
types are designed to store arbitrary binary data, including files, images, serialized objects, and other binary representations.

Q-55-What File Formats and Applications Does Hive Support?
A-55-File Formats:
1.Text File (TEXTFILE): Plain text files with each line representing a record.
2.Sequence File (SEQUENCEFILE): Binary file format optimized for storing key-value pairs.
3.ORC (Optimized Row Columnar): A columnar file format with advanced compression and performance optimizations.
4.Parquet: A columnar storage format that offers efficient compression and high query performance.
5.Avro: A compact and efficient data serialization framework.
6.RCFile: A row columnar file format for efficient query performance.
7.JSON: JavaScript Object Notation format for semi-structured data.
8.CSV: Comma-Separated Values format commonly used for tabular data.
9.XML: Extensible Markup Language format for structured data.
Applications:Hive integrates with Apache Hadoop ecosystem tools and applications such as:
Apache Spark: A fast and general-purpose cluster computing framework.
Apache Tez: An execution framework optimized for interactive and batch processing.
Apache HBase: A distributed NoSQL database for random read/write access.
Apache Kafka: A distributed streaming platform for real-time data processing.
Apache Drill: A distributed SQL query engine.
Apache Flink: A stream processing and batch processing framework.
Apache Impala: A massively parallel processing SQL query engine.

Q-56-How do ORC format tables help Hive to enhance its performance?
A-56-1.Columnar Storage: ORC stores data in a columnar format, where data for each column is stored together. This storage layout allows for 
efficient compression and column-level operations, as only the relevant columns are read from disk during query execution. It reduces I/O and 
improves query performance, especially for selective column scans and aggregation operations.
2.Compression: ORC uses advanced compression techniques, including dictionary encoding, run-length encoding, and lightweight compression 
algorithms like Snappy and Zlib. The columnar storage and compression significantly reduce the amount of data that needs to be read from disk, 
resulting in faster data access and reduced storage requirements.
3.Predicate Pushdown: ORC supports predicate pushdown, which means that the filtering conditions specified in a query are pushed down to the 
storage layer. This allows the storage layer to skip reading irrelevant data blocks, improving query performance by minimizing the amount of data 
processed during query execution.
4.Indexing: ORC provides built-in indexing mechanisms like Bloom filters and min/max indexes. These indexes enable faster data skipping during 
query execution, as they allow the query engine to quickly identify data blocks that don't contain relevant data based on the filtering conditions.
This reduces disk I/O and improves query performance.

Q-57-How can Hive avoid mapreduce while processing the query?
A-57-Hive can avoid MapReduce while processing queries through various mechanisms:
*Tez Execution Engine: Hive can leverage the Apache Tez execution engine as an alternative to MapReduce. Tez provides a more efficient and
interactive data processing framework that executes queries as directed acyclic graphs (DAGs). It enables data to flow directly between Hive
operators, reducing the need for intermediate disk I/O and improving query performance.
*LLAP (Live Long and Process): LLAP is an in-memory caching and execution engine introduced in Hive. It allows for low-latency query processing by 
keeping data in memory across multiple queries. LLAP reduces the overhead of starting a new MapReduce job for each query by maintaining long-lived
daemons, resulting in faster query response times.
*Vectorized Query Execution: Hive supports vectorized query execution, where data processing is performed in batches instead of individual rows. 
Vectorized execution eliminates the need for row-by-row processing and can significantly improve query performance. It leverages CPU vector 
instructions to process multiple data elements simultaneously, resulting in faster data processing.
*Predicate Pushdown and Pruning: Hive can push down predicates (filter conditions) to storage layers, such as ORC or Parquet. This allows the
storage layer to skip reading unnecessary data blocks, reducing disk I/O and improving query performance. Predicate pruning avoids unnecessary 
processing and data transfer between storage and compute layers.
*Indexing: Hive supports various indexing mechanisms, such as Bloom filters and min/max indexes. These indexes provide selective data skipping 
capabilities, allowing Hive to avoid reading unnecessary data during query execution. By leveraging indexes, Hive can quickly identify relevant
data blocks, reducing disk I/O and improving query performance.
*Caching: Hive allows for result caching, where the results of frequently executed queries can be stored in memory or disk. Subsequent executions 
of the same query can retrieve the results from the cache, avoiding the need for re-computation. Caching can significantly improve query response 
times for repetitive or commonly accessed queries.

Q-58-What is view and indexing in hive?
A-58-In Hive, a view is a virtual table that provides a logical representation of the data stored in one or more underlying tables. A view does 
not contain any physical data itself; instead, it references the data from the underlying tables. Views are defined using a query, and the result 
of that query is treated as a table. Views can simplify complex queries, provide data security by restricting access to certain columns or rows, 
and offer a consistent interface to users.
Hive supports several indexing mechanisms, including:
Bitmap Indexes: These indexes use bitmap vectors to map values to rows in the table. Bitmap indexes are suitable for low cardinality columns.
Compact Indexes: Compact indexes store a sorted list of column values and their corresponding row IDs. They are efficient for high cardinality 
columns.
Bitmap and Compact Indexes Combined: Hive supports the combination of bitmap and compact indexes, offering efficient indexing for tables with 
columns of varying cardinality.

Q-59-Can the name of a view be the same as the name of a hive table?
A-59-No, in Hive, the name of a view cannot be the same as the name of a table. Each view and table must have a unique name within the Hive 
database or schema.If you attempt to create a view with the same name as an existing table, or vice versa, Hive will generate an error indicating
the name conflict.

Q-60-What types of costs are associated in creating indexes on hive tables?
A-60-Creating indexes on Hive tables comes with certain costs that should be considered. Here are some of the costs associated with creating
indexes:
*Storage Overhead: Indexes require additional storage space to store the index data structures. The size of the index can vary depending on the 
indexed columns, the indexing mechanism used, and the cardinality of the indexed values. The storage overhead increases with the number of indexed
columns and the size of the indexed table.
*Maintenance Overhead: Whenever data is inserted, updated, or deleted in the indexed table, the index needs to be updated accordingly to reflect 
the changes. This maintenance overhead can impact the performance of data modification operations, as additional operations are required to update
the index.
*Increased Write Latency: Writing data to an indexed table can be slower compared to a non-indexed table, as the index needs to be updated along
with the actual data write. The write latency increases as the number of indexes on the table grows.
*Increased Query Planning Time: When executing queries on an indexed table, Hive needs to consider the available indexes and their statistics 
during the query planning phase. This additional consideration may slightly increase the query planning time.
*Index Selection Overhead: Hive's query optimizer needs to evaluate the available indexes and determine the most efficient index to use for a given
query. This index selection process introduces additional overhead during query optimization.

Q-61-Give the command to see the indexes on a table.
A-61-show indexes on department_data;

Q-62-Explain the process to access subdirectories recursively in Hive queries.
A-62-SET hive.mapred.supports.subdirectories=true;
SELECT ...
FROM (SELECT TRANSFORM(array_of_directories) USING 'command' AS (output_columns) FROM dummy_table) t
SELECT ...
FROM (SELECT TRANSFORM(array_of_directories) USING 'find' AS (output_columns) FROM dummy_table) t
SELECT ...
FROM (SELECT TRANSFORM(array_of_directories) USING 'find' AS (output_columns) FROM dummy_table) t
LATERAL VIEW explode(output_columns) subTable AS subDirectory;
SELECT *
FROM (SELECT TRANSFORM(array_of_directories) USING 'find' AS (output_columns) FROM dummy_table) t
LATERAL VIEW explode(output_columns) subTable AS subDirectory
WHERE subDirectory LIKE '%.txt';


Q-63-If you run a select * query in Hive, why doesn't it run MapReduce?
A-63-When you run a SELECT * query in Hive, it doesn't necessarily trigger a MapReduce job if the table is stored in a suitable format and the 
necessary conditions are met. Hive utilizes a technique called "map-only query optimization" to avoid the need for a full MapReduce job in certain
scenarios.
Map-only query optimization allows Hive to skip the reduce phase and directly read data from the underlying storage format, such as ORC or Parquet.

Q-64-What are the uses of Hive Explode?
A-64-The explode() function in Hive is used to transform an array or map column into multiple rows, unnesting the elements of the array or map. 
It generates a new row for each element in the array or key-value pair in the map. Here are some common uses of the explode() function in Hive:
*Flattening Arrays: If a column in a Hive table contains an array, explode() can be used to flatten the array and create multiple rows, each 
representing an element of the array. This is useful when you want to perform operations or analysis on individual elements of the array.
*Unpacking Maps: Similarly, if a column in a Hive table contains a map, explode() can be used to unpack the map and generate rows for each key-
value pair. This allows you to work with individual key-value pairs in a more flexible manner.
*Cross Joining: The explode() function can be used in conjunction with the LATERAL VIEW operator to perform cross joins. By exploding two or more
columns, you can generate all possible combinations of the exploded elements, creating a Cartesian product of the rows.
*Data Transformation: explode() is often used as part of a data transformation process. It can be used to split a delimited string into multiple
rows or extract individual elements from a complex data structure, enabling further processing or analysis.
*Data Exploration: When exploring data in Hive, explode() can help to examine the individual elements of an array or map column. It allows you to 
extract and analyze specific values, perform aggregations, or filter based on the exploded elements.
*Data Cleaning and Validation: explode() can be utilized to identify and handle missing or incorrect values in array or map columns. By exploding 
the column, you can identify problematic elements and apply data cleaning or validation rules to ensure data quality.

Q-65- What is the available mechanism for connecting applications when we run Hive as a server?
A-65-

Q-66-Can the default location of a managed table be changed in Hive?
A-66-

Q-67-What is the Hive ObjectInspector function?
A-67-

Q-68-What is UDF in Hive?
A-68-

Q-69-Write a query to extract data from hdfs to hive.
A-69-

Q-70-What is TextInputFormat and SequenceFileInputFormat in hive.
A-70-

Q-71-How can you prevent a large job from running for a long time in a hive?
A-71-

Q-72-When do we use explode in Hive?
A-72-

Q-73-Can Hive process any type of data formats? Why? Explain in very detail
A-73-

Q-74-Whenever we run a Hive query, a new metastore_db is created. Why?
A-74-

Q-75-Can we change the data type of a column in a hive table? Write a complete query.
A-75-

Q-76-While loading data into a hive table using the LOAD DATA clause, how do you specify it is a hdfs file and not a local file ?
A-76-

Q-77-What is the precedence order in Hive configuration?
A-77-

Q-78-Which interface is used for accessing the Hive metastore?
A-78-

Q-79-Is it possible to compress json in the Hive external table ?
A-79-

Q-80-What is the difference between local and remote metastores?
A-80-

Q-81-What is the purpose of archiving tables in Hive?
A-81-

Q-82-What is DBPROPERTY in Hive?
A-82-

Q-83-Differentiate between local mode and MapReduce mode in Hive.
A-83-















